all right welcome everybody to the
August 20th ipfs all hands that is
update what's going on meeting I think
we only have a few items on the agenda
this time does anybody want to be
note-taker would anybody please
volunteer to be noted Oh Jacob thank you
all right so I think the only sort of
primary agenda item we have listed down
so far it's just a quick notice for me I
won't be here next week I'll be
traveling for conference so if somebody
would not mind taking over this job and
just sitting here and corralling people
in 20 different people to talk that
would be great
there's a link to the issue in github
that is an overview of your
responsibilities mainly it's just make
sure you're here on time and post a
notice to IRC beforehand
but let me know on slack or IRC or
github if you'd like to take over and
just does it make you as the person for
next week that's it for me and what's
written down on your agenda items does
anybody else have a last minute items
you want to add or mention before we
move on to demos Lydell yeah I guess
there's an interesting development
last week I like I opened an issue to
change HTML spec to include distributed
web protocols on the safe list at least
basically this is a list for used by API
such as navigator register protocol
handler that lets a website to register
redirect based
for arbitrary protocols that way you can
support like ipfs : / / without I like
actual native support still the URL if
you if the browser finds that URL on the
page it will work it will redirect to
HTTP POST reader so it's like an
intermediary step but if you introduce
our protocols into the HTML spec that
may opens a lot of doors because we gain
legitimacy we are able to take advantage
of the fact that those safe lists are
already used by Mozilla for things like
protocol handlers used by web extensions
so basically if other vendor tries to
implement the same API they basically
reuse the same safe lists and things
like that so I'll post I posted the link
to the issue to the chat and I will add
it to the notes and it's just a quick
shout out that we we have intended to
implement from the chromium team and we
have already one positive review and
basically I don't think anyone opposes
that there was a huge blocker for like
historically if you had wanted to change
this list there was like an opposition
the spec body was waiting for vendors to
implement change and vendors did one did
not want to change internal change
because they want to implement HTML spec
so chicken and egg problem but right now
we were able to cut a lot of red tape
and it looks promising so yeah
I have a question is that the what WG
HTML spec er the w3c want or both casino
big culture is kind of different between
those two groups
it's the the first one okay that's the
important one because it's the one
implemented by the all the many like key
players in the web browser event or
space any other questions on that
all right moving on Matt you had an
update workshops yeah well so this is a
workshop that I attended last week that
is a project that I don't think many
people know about the underlay there's
links to the concept notes there in the
in the I added it to the notes I
recommend reading about it it's sort of
you could it's basically an attempt if
you know what freebase was which has now
become Google knowledge graph it was a
public open database where people were
building semantic information they're
building like a graph graph database of
knowledge for the web that Google then
acquired and absorbed and made private a
few years ago and turned into Google
knowledge graph this is a project this
is an initiative or project or
collaboration to basically reboot that
as an open data set that's designed to
be locked open it's not certain to use
the IP FS right now the current sort of
prototypes that they're building are
using IP LD and and so this workshop was
like an initial visioning workshop to
sort of think about the data models
involved so it wasn't even getting
really into the functional details of
how it work it was just looking at the
data models and considering the edge
cases and structures that are necessary
there but yeah it was really cool
workshop that happened at the MIT Media
Lab and the project is a collaboration
between the MIT press and protocol labs
and I'm no I'm blanking on the other
participants that's that's bad so it's a
really interesting project you should
read up on it and if you have thoughts
on how knowledge for the web should be
structured or cannulating you should
jump in and chime in it's all happening
in the open they're doing all their work
in pub pub which is designed for sort of
collaborative commenting and iteration
on concepts and research so jump right
in
there's a mailing list all those other
things oh and is
especially if you're using IPL D this
project as part of this as part of these
prototypes that are using IPL T they are
working with IPL D and json-ld so it's
this sort of this spanning this um link
data IPL the kind of space which is
something that's been hovering there as
someone should take a stab at that for
like two years and they're stabbing at
it so if you if you're interested in
semantic web or Ardea for json-ld
and are curious about how that's applied
in the IPL d you should take a look at
that project that's all
very cool are there any questions or
other things about that anybody
all right well then let's move on we've
got one demo from OH two demos from one
from Alan right I would recommend that
isn't like you watch that in your
leisure time it's like 15 minutes long
but it's it's essentially a a transport
and discovery module for Jase ipfs that
uses the new mozilla zlib d web library
which is a library for enabling kind of
various peer-to-peer functionality - web
extensions but it means that a ipfs node
running in a web extension like an IP
address IPF estimate node like running
as an embedded node in companion can use
mdns and it can listen it can create a
TCP socket listen on it make connections
to other nodes discover them on the
local network and generally do stuff
you'd normally only be able to do with a
GFI TFS node running in node.js so it's
pretty damn awesome that that library
exists and I've just plugged a hut a few
bits and pieces together to make it work
but what that video shows is two nodes
running in two different browsers
discovering each other over mdns
connecting to each other and then adding
some data to one of them and cutting it
out from the other one and the
communication happening just using p2p
so we remove all of the other like
discovery and transports from the node
so the only discovery in transport that
it can use are the new ones that are
provided by Lib D web so it's all good
stuff
take a look it might take a while and I
do a lot of talking there as well so I'm
sorry that rad that's about all I've got
to say I think if anyone has any
questions and I will take them now
you go first row okay I so so I may not
totally understand all the ins and outs
of this properly because I know there's
some sort of issues with with broader
participation and discovery in the DHT
which is ipfs does this sort of pave the
way for improving some of that or are
there other major functionalities just
helps pave the way for in Jos ipfs in
communicating better with go ideas Yeah
right so it's not so much paving the way
for a DHT to exists just more like
giving it the abilities to do what no
Jess can already do when it's running in
a no Jo environment because in the
browser it's we're like super restricted
on what we can do and like how we can
talk to each other
we're like properly sandbox so this
basically opens up the ability for Jess
ipfs to talk to other nodes and like I
should probably say that live D where
there's a possibility that it might as a
library make it into Firefox and if it
gets into Firefox then that will be
super rad because it might also make it
into other browsers and then it means
the way one step closer to a fully
peer-to-peer web with I professed nodes
running in the browser
have you have you done your demo to end
the video to the people who are working
on live debug at Mozilla are they
excited about it yes I have show it well
cuz I like the guy who's been working on
the Liberty web has seen it
whoever or not he's super excited about
it I don't know but I imagine he's well
jazzed about it
and you have questions whatever question
is there anything we should be doing too
because this is um the Lib D web effort
and the work you're doing with it is
part of this and what and the stuff that
that Lydell was just updating about is
this us making solid stabs in this
effort to like upgrade the protocols of
the web and update upgrade the browsers
and it's there's a lot of there's a lot
of like organizations and people and
perspectives involved is there anything
we could or should be doing to help you
like get this work out there in front of
people and help like get momentum behind
it
right so I guess what it needs is
exposure it needs people using daddy web
like I guess Mozilla need to see it
being a valuable thing it needs blog
posts it needs excitement about it
that's all I can think of in terms of
what we can do is I'm gonna get the get
the word out get people using it get
people opening issues talking about it
and and yet generally getting getting
out there and currently in order to use
the D web you need to use a light
nightly build of Firefox is that ready
yeah that's right okay
just to talk quick remarks on that one
thing is that we probably could make a
blog post on like block IPF Sao
generally about Liberty web I think when
we polish protocol handler and the
discovery and transport to the point
when it's like one command and runs we
probably could make a blog post just so
that it's something we can link to and
Mozilla really appreciates when people
are talking about using the web because
there's that gives a momentum to invest
more time in that another thing is that
it's related to work done by Allen on
mdns we as a PFS community we are right
currently changing the way we advertise
advertise our services over and DNS and
that's just a quick shout out from
Mayans that if we search it out so that
the same spec is implemented by go ipfs
and JSA PFS we basically have JSOC EFS
running in ipfs companion announcing
itself to nodes on the local network and
that node can be ipfs in other companion
running on someone else web browser or
it can be going PFS running on the local
node and basically it won't matter which
implementation it is right that's the
angle so on our an internal end we need
to sort out the mdns spec I think it's
like ongoing effort there's a issue and
PR with new spec I think Alan is
probably implementing the the future
version but it's just some additional
background from mind
yeah I guess they want the one cool
thing that I didn't mention was yeah
like Lyta said the possibility for I
like ipfs nodes
in a web extension to be able to
interrupt with local or discover and
talk to local NGO ipfs nodes or JSI VFS
demons on the local network
it's just that would be amazing
cooperating that blog post I'm happy to
help
any other questions about this before we
move on
all right I think Hector
as a demo about ipfs cluster control Hey
so we are in the process of getting the
next version of ipfs cluster out it's
gonna be 0 5 0 and the main feature is
that you can add content directly using
cluster so normally you do ipfs ad and
you can now do i PFS cluster CTL ad and
fremont works exactly like ipfs from the
user point of view the difference is
that it will allocate that content to
several beers at once
and it will send it once it is chunked
it will send the blocks directly to the
destination view meaning that when
adding is finished you can immediately
pin and your content things immediately
hint or replicated in in several places
it doesn't need to until now the
workflow will be you add two ipfs first
and then you've been in cluster and then
it needs to copy what you paint to to
the places where the pin was allocated
and now you can just add directly and
the moment you've been all the content
is is there in the destination view
there's a video that I recorder and yeah
it's just that just to let you know I
will hopefully come back when we do the
final release and tomorrow yes Rob it
sounded like it does but does it
automatically obtain the same way I kept
a set does yes
see spinning in several places and self
adding the your logo note is adding to
multiple notes and be near multiple
notes at once
any other questions for Hector on that
all right any other last-minute
questions asks for help
agenda items that you want to announce
before we're done for the day
going once going twice
alright well thanks everybody for
showing up for today's All Hands I guess
that's all we've got and see you all
online and next week